Your liver is a large organ
located primarily in the right
upper quadrant of your abdomen.
It lies under your diaphragm
and to the right of your stomach
and is protected by your ribcage.
Your liver is responsible for many metabolic
and filtration functions in the body.
Most importantly, the liver filters your blood
before returning it to your heart
to pump it to the rest of the body.
It also produces bile,
a fluid necessary for emulsifying fats during digestion.
Your liver is divided into two halves;
which are further divided into four segments each.
When cancer develops within
or migrates to the liver,
a liver resection is often part of the necessary treatment.
A liver resection is the removal of a portion of the liver.
Before beginning a liver resection,
the patient is put under general anesthesia.
The operation may be performed
through an incision, known as an open approach.
Or through several small incisions,
known as a laparoscopic or robotic assisted approach.
Your surgeon will then remove the
portion of the liver affected by cancer.
This may involve as little as a small wedge,
to several segments or sections,
to a full lobe or more being removed.
Your liver is one of the few organs
in your body with the ability to regenerate.
It typically grows back to its original size in 3 months.
A liver resection is usually very successful
at eliminating cancer in the liver.
It is a major operation that
usually takes 2-4 hours.
Most patients are fully recovered and
back to daily routines within a week.